Hello everyone,
and welcome to the namedtuple lecture.
So this lecture will be the last lecture
in the collections module series.
And we'll be learning about the namedtuple.
So, let's first start with a standard tuple.
If I say t is equal to parentheses, one, two, three,
and then I can use indexing
to grab elements from that tuple.
And for most cases, that's usually enough.
However, remembering which index should be used
is sometimes hard to remember.
So, if you haven't seen this tuple in a while,
throughout your code, you may not know which index,
in case these values are each associated
for a particular element or variable throughout your code.
So especially if the tuple has lots of fields,
and it's been constructed far away,
using just a normal tuple may lead to errors.
So, what a namedtuple does, it assigns names,
as well as a numerical index, to each member in the tuple.
And the way I like to think of tuples,
that basically, each kind of namedtuple
is almost like creating a class very quickly.
So it's created by using the namedtuple factory function.
So, I'm gonna say import, collections.
Actually, let's just import from collections.
So I'll say, from collections import namedtuple.
And then I'll show you the context
for creating a namedtuple.
So I'm gonna make Dog, and I'm gonna capitalise this,
because you can think of this as just quickly creating
a new class, you call namedtuple.
And then there's gonna be two arguments here.
The first one is the name of the class that you're creating.
So I will say, it will be called Dog.
And then, you're gonna pass a string,
with the various attribute fields.
So these are almost like the self dot attributes of a class.
And it's a bit strange, as far as the syntax.
But you pass it all as one string,
with spaces in between the names of each attribute.
So a dog can have an age, a breed, and a name.
Okay, and then I can create a dog,
just as if I had created a whole class for this.
So I can say, dog,
with an age of two,
a breed of, let's say, lab,
and the name this dog has is Sammy.
And I'm assigning it to the variable Sam.
So, just as if we had created
a entire class with attributes,
the namedtuple basically acts the same way.
So I can say Sam,
age, as an attribute, call it off.
And I can say, sam dot, notice if I click tab here
to see all the various methods,
I have all the attributes, age, breed, and name.
And then I also have counts and index,
because it still has those tuples,
and it's a subclass of tuple.
I can also just call by index,
if I remember what the index is for age.
So, zero, one, two, alright.
So that's it for namedtuples.
So let's go ahead and do a quick overview
by creating one more example.
So remember, a namedtuple is just like a normal tuple,
except that it basically creates a new object type.
And it allows names for the various fields.
So I can make another one called Cat.
It will be a namedtuple, the object type will be called cat.
And then I pass one string
with spaces in between the fields.
So I can say, fur, claws,
and let's also pass name.
So now I've created my namedtuple,
I can make a cat object, I'll just call it c.
And I can create a cat, and I will assign it,
fur will be, let's say, I dunno, fuzzy.
Claws, let's say claws is a Boolean,
so I'll say false, no claws.
And we'll put the name is equal to kitty.
Alright, now if I just type out c, it's a namedtuple,
which is the object class cat,
has fuzzy fur, no claws,
false for claws, and the name kitty.
And again, I can call attributes off of it,
or I can use indexing as well,
just as if it were a normal tuple.
Okay, I hope you find, as you advance more in your code,
that namedtuples are really nice, quick way
to assign variables and field names to a situation
where a normal tuple might get confusing,
or you might lose track.
So this is the final lecture in the collections module,
I hope you found the collections module useful.
Go ahead and, if you want, google
python documentation collections module,
and you'll find a tonne of more information.
But the main ones, you should know,
are namedtuple, counter,
order dictionary and default dictionary.
There's also deques, which are a list-like container,
with faster appends and pops on either end.
But you can go ahead and check that out on your own,
in case you're used to it,
from any computer science background.
But again, like I mentioned before,
collections is a super-useful library
and I hope you find instances to use it in your code.
Alright, thank you, and I'll see you at the next lecture.